README.md, before:

# larssh - an SSH server for micropython by LarsH

This is a small SSH server python implementation.

## Current status (2022-jul-17)

SSH terminal: working, but the key exchange is slow, it takes about a
minute for a connection to establish on a Raspberry Pico W.

Authentication: Only `none` at the moment

SFTP: not implemented yet

Normal python support: broken

## Installation and setup

1.  Clone this repo
2.  Generate a hostkey: `./generateHostKey.sh > hostkey.py`
3.  Copy the following files to the micropython system:
      - `server.py`
      - `basic_datatypes.py`
      - `datatypes.py`
      - `sftp.py`
      - `hostkey.py`

## Usage

``` {python}
import server
server.startServer()
```

## Micropython compilation requirements

Micropython must be compiled with `MICROPY_PY_UCRYPTOLIB_CTR` and
`MICROPY_PY_OS_DUPTERM` (and probably a few other flags).

## License

Like micropython/micropython, this project is licensed under the MIT
License.

In addition it has the following non-legally binding clause:

> Lars likes beer. If you use this software for practical or educational
> purposes, like it and meet Lars at a bar/conference/similar; you are
> not legally bound (but happily encouraged) to offer Lars a beer. :)

## Goals

The goals of this project are

  - to implement a minimal SSH server that can run on micropython
  - to provide an easy-to-understand example of how SSH works

The ultimate goal is to provide the same functionality as
micropython/webrepl, with an SSH prompt and SFTP file transfer.

The project aims to reach these goals by

  - putting references to RFC-sections for all relevant code parts

## Anti-goals

It is *not* a goal of this project

  - to be fully compliant with all the MUST-clauses of the SSH
    specification.
  - to be general. Supporting a single algorithm is probably good
    enough.

Commit message:

Speedup fixes: Signing with RSA-CRT, smaller DH-exponent, added timing debug output

README.md, after:

# larssh - an SSH server for micropython by LarsH

This is a small SSH server python implementation.

## Current status (2022-jul-17)

SSH terminal: working, connection to a a Raspberry Pico W takes 15
seconds. (DH: 5s, Signing with 2048 bit host key: 9s)

Authentication: Only `none` at the moment

SFTP: not implemented yet

Normal python support: broken

## Installation and setup

1.  Clone this repo
2.  Generate a hostkey: `./generateHostKey.sh > hostkey.py`
3.  Copy the following files to the micropython system:
      - `server.py`
      - `basic_datatypes.py`
      - `datatypes.py`
      - `sftp.py`
      - `hostkey.py`

## Usage

First make sure the micropython system has a working network connection,
then run

``` {python}
import server
server.startServer()
```

This will start a thread in the background listening on port 22.

## Micropython compilation requirements

Micropython must be compiled with `MICROPY_PY_UCRYPTOLIB_CTR` and
`MICROPY_PY_OS_DUPTERM` (and probably a few other flags).

## License

Like micropython/micropython, this project is licensed under the MIT
License.

In addition it has the following non-legally binding clause:

> Lars likes beer. If you use this software for practical or educational
> purposes, like it and meet Lars at a bar/conference/similar; you are
> not legally bound (but happily encouraged) to offer Lars a beer. :)

## Goals

The goals of this project are

  - to implement a minimal SSH server that can run on micropython
  - to provide an easy-to-understand example of how SSH works

The ultimate goal is to provide the same functionality as
micropython/webrepl, with an SSH prompt and SFTP file transfer.

The project aims to reach these goals by

  - putting references to RFC-sections for all relevant code parts

## Anti-goals

It is *not* a goal of this project

  - to be fully compliant with all the MUST-clauses of the SSH
    specification.
  - to be general. Supporting a single algorithm is probably good
    enough.
